The data directory ensures that essential parts of the blockchain are persistent such that in the event of a server crash and a  blockchain peer unexpectedly stops running, data is saved and can be reloaded when the server is running again.

Essential data include:
1. knownPeers.txt stores a list of all the foreign peers that the node is aware of. This allows the node to rejoin the network by sending connection messages to these nodes. These nodes can then fill the node in on any missed blocks or votes that have been accepted. Each line of this text file hold the data for a single peer. Specific data such as "host", "port" and "publickey" will all be stored on a single line seperated by a triple-pipe: "|||". There is no need to sign this file as loss of integrity has no impact on the blockchain's security.
2. blockchain.json stores a copy of the blockchain in json format. Although when a peer reconnects it's blockchain version is likely to be out of date and therefore it will adapt the longest blockchain, it is important that blockchains are persistently stores always incase all servers go down. Although this is low risk it is critical that this does not happen or an election will be lost. 
3. pendingVotes.txt stores a list of the votes that have been submitted to this peer ( either directly or through other peers ) that have yet to be added to a block. It is important that this data is not lost otherwise valid votes may be lost. This file must be signed in order to prevent loss of integrity. If integrity is lost ( through a malicious hacker ) valid votes should still be accepted as they cannot be sign fraudulently and therefore must be legitimate. Invalid votes should be discounted as normal. Some valid votes could be lost in this process however the peer would likely have shared these votes with other peers already so no loss. If they have not been shared then it is important that they are still recovered through this process. Each line of this text file holds the data for a single pending vote. Specific data such as "voteValue", "voter" and "signature" will be stored on a single line seperated by a triple-pipe "|||".
4. remainingVoters.txt stores a list of the publicKeys that have registered to vote but have not yet voted. All incomming votes are checked against this list. This list cannot be easily reconstructed if lost and therefore it is important that it is persistent across all peers incase they all go down and an election is lost. Remaining voters files will have a publickey on each line.
